# icp_canister_storage_test
This repository is for testing out canister storage and databases.
Welcome to our open-source project for handling DICOM files on the Dfinity Internet Computer. This DApp facilitates the storage and management of DICOM medical imaging files, leveraging the power of Canisters for scalable, secure, and efficient data handling.

## Overview

This project demonstrates a decentralized application (DApp) that allows users to upload, store, and manage DICOM files. It explores two storage options: external databases and the Canister's stable memory storage, offering flexibility based on your needs.

## Features

- DICOM file upload through Canister calls.
- Option to store files in an external database or Canister's stable memory.
- Secure and efficient file handling.

## Lifecycle Overview

### DApp and Canister Lifecycle

1. **Initialization:** The DApp initializes the Canister with necessary configurations.
2. **User Interaction:** Users interact with the DApp through a user-friendly interface to upload DICOM files.
3. **Canister Call:** The DApp makes Canister calls to process and store the DICOM files.
4. **Storage Decision:** Depending on the configured storage option, the Canister either stores the file in its stable memory or interacts with an external database.
5. **Completion:** The user receives confirmation of the successful storage of the DICOM file.

### Storage Options

#### Using an External Database

- **Pros:** Allows for complex queries and may offer more mature management tools.
- **Cons:** Requires additional infrastructure and management. Potentially introduces centralization.
- **Implementation:** The Canister interfaces with the external database through backend services, securely storing and retrieving DICOM files as requested.

#### Using Canister's Stable Memory Storage

- **Pros:** Fully decentralized, leveraging the inherent security and scalability of the Internet Computer.
- **Cons:** More limited compared to traditional databases, especially for complex queries.
- **Implementation:** DICOM files are directly stored in the Canister's stable memory. This option ensures data permanence and resilience.

## Getting Started

To get started, you might want to explore the project directory structure and the default configuration file. Working with this project in your development environment will not affect any production deployment or identity tokens.

To learn more before you start working with icp-storage-test, see the following documentation available online:

- [Quick Start](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/deploy-locally)
- [SDK Developer Tools](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/install)
- [Motoko Programming Language Guide](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/motoko)
- [Motoko Language Quick Reference](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/language-manual)

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try the following commands:

```bash
cd icp-storage-test/
dfx help
dfx canister --help
```

## Running the project locally

If you want to test your project locally, you can use the following commands:

```bash
# Starts the replica, running in the background
dfx start --background

# Deploys your canisters to the replica and generates your candid interface
dfx deploy
```

Once the job completes, your application will be available at `http://localhost:4943?canisterId={asset_canister_id}`.

If you have made changes to your backend canister, you can generate a new candid interface with

```bash
npm run generate
```

at any time. This is recommended before starting the frontend development server, and will be run automatically any time you run `dfx deploy`.

If you are making frontend changes, you can start a development server with

```bash
npm start
```

Which will start a server at `http://localhost:8080`, proxying API requests to the replica at port 4943.

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`DFX_NETWORK` to `ic` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` in the autogenerated declarations
  - Setting `canisters -> {asset_canister_id} -> declarations -> env_override to a string` in `dfx.json` will replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` with the string in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor
